Contact
chew.yean.yam@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/cyyam
(LinkedIn)
Top Skills
Research
Microarray Analysis
OpenCV
Languages
English (Native or Bilingual)
Malay (Professional Working)
Mandarin (Native or Bilingual)
Cantonese (Native or Bilingual)
Certifications
Uncovering Your Authentic Self at
Work
Worldwide Communities -
Community SME 2018
Fred Kofman on Managing Conflict
Chew-Yean Yam
AI Leader & Practitioner | Data Science | Machine Learning | AI
Strategy
United Kingdom
Summary
Over 20 years of industrial and applied research experience with
global advanced technology companies and internationally renowned
research institutions: Microsoft, Intel, HP Labs, Agency for Science
Technology & Research, British Aerospace Engineering, National
Physical Laboratory (UK).
I build and lead Data Science and Machine Learning specialist teams
to design and develop AI applications with start-ups and established
enterprises. I advise on their AI strategies, identify commercial
opportunities and code with them to deployment. Experienced in
incubation of new AI capabilities for products.
Experience in:
Hands-on data driven and machine learning algorithms: classical
and deep learning, applied to computer vision, text analytics,
time-series, predictive models, from conception, architecting to
deployment. Applied in wide range of domains and industries:
biometrics, unmanned air vehicles, ecommerce, advertising, areal
sensing, conservation, security, finance, insurance, transport, media
entertainment, gaming.
Giving back:
I actively help and advice women who wants to get into STEM
career through active involvements via Women Tech Hub (https://
www.wthub.org/), run Data Science and Machine Learning
Workshop on a regular basis and has been on Advisory Board for
Data Science and Machine Learning, University of Bristol.
Experience
Microsoft
8 years 2 months
Page 1 of 7
Principal Data and Applied Scientist
December 2021 - Present (1 year 6 months)
Design and build AI applications with enterprises in Latin America Region
across industries. Advise on their AI strategies, identify commercial
opportunities and code with them to deployment. Translate business
requirements into machine learning solution.
Enhance skills of team of Cloud Solution Architect specialised in Machine
Learning through collaboration and education.
Principal Data and Applied Scientist
December 2019 - December 2021 (2 years 1 month)
Design and build AI Capabilities with enterprises :
• Recommender engine for media streaming company
• Information extraction from images and texts for oil and gas company
AI Incubator | Design, build and incubate AI and Data Analytics capabilities :
• Media Industry aligned with the MovieLabs Ontology for Media Creation, with
direct engagement with major Hollywood’s studios, such as Disney’s, Warner
Brothers and Universal. Extract entities specific for media creation from written
(movie) scripts, and represented as a knowledge graph for subsequent usage
in the media production process, e.g. entities linking, information retrieval,
knowledge graph.
• Gaming Industry Customer Churn and Data Analytics capabilities for Gaming
Platform Playfab.
Principal Data and Applied Science Manager
May 2018 - November 2019 (1 year 7 months)
Lead a Data Science team.
Design and build many AI applications with enterprises in the EMEA
region across industries. Advise on their AI strategies, identify commercial
opportunities and code with them to deployment. Translate business
requirements into machine learning solution. Hands-on with enterprises
engineering team and build custom machine learning models.
Principal Data and Applied Scientist
April 2015 - April 2018 (3 years 1 month)
Page 2 of 7
London, United Kingdom
Design and build many AI applications with enterprises world-wide across
industries. Advise on their AI strategies, identify commercial opportunities
and code with them to deployment. Translate business requirements into
machine learning solution. Hands-on with enterprises engineering team and
build custom machine learning models.
Data Science and Machine Learning Study Group (MeetUp)
Co-Founder/Organizer
November 2019 - Present (3 years 7 months)
Bristol, United Kingdom
The vision of this community group is to empower every single person in
Bristol and surrounding areas to achieve quality Machine Learning and Data
Science knowledge, so that they can go on and do great things that benefit the
quality of life of fellow earth citizens.
https://www.meetup.com/Bristol-Data-Science-and-Machine-Learning-StudyGroup/
University of Bristol
External Advisory Board Member
January 2019 - Present (4 years 5 months)
Voluntary.
Advice on Data Science and Machine Learning related courses, bringing
academia and industry closer, diversity and inclusion.
BAE Systems
Principal Research Scientist
April 2013 - March 2015 (2 years)
Application domains:
- Text Document Analysis - Event Detection and Extraction
- Health Impact Assessment
- Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) - ASTREA. http://astraea.aero/
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories
Research Scientist
November 2010 - October 2012 (2 years)
Application domains:
- Cloud Computing Stewardship and Economics.
Page 3 of 7
- Discrete event model and simulation of interaction within cloud computing
ecosystem to predict consequences of information stewardship issues and
economics implications in cloud computing adoption.
Publications:
C.-Y. Yam, A. Baldwin, C. Ioannidis, S. Shiu, Migration to Cloud as Real
Option: Investment decision under uncertainty, IEEE TrustCom Symposiums &
Workshops, Nov 2011.
A. Baldwin, Y. Beres, L. Carrotte, T. Koulouris, B. Monahan, D. Pym, S. Shiu,
and C.Y. Yam, Exploring Information Stewardship with the Cloud Ecosystem
Model, 9th International Conference on Modeling, Simulation and Visualization
Methods, July 2012
National Physical Laboratory
Senior Scientist
October 2007 - March 2010 (2 years 6 months)
National Measurement Institute, world-leader in measurement standards,
science and technology.
Application domains:
- Biometrics, Anti-Counterfeit(Bank notes, Barcode, Printing on packaging)
- Error Analysis in 3-D Face Reconstruction, Image Correlation, Uncertainty
propagation through an imaging system.
- Design, develop, implement complex experiments, gather and process
large data set, perform statistical data analysis, draw conclusions and provide
recommendations backed by scientific facts to improve product.
Business Development:
- Negotiate and liaise with international customers to win contracts.
- Translate business requirement into technical specification.
Publication:
R. Dudley, T. Esward, T. Goodman, A. Horgan, T. Koukoulas, R. Montgomery,
A. Shard, F. Tuffy and C.-Y. Yam, Measurements to support anti-counterfeiting
and authentication: a new project at the UKs National Physical Laboratory, 3rd
Authentication Connections Forum, Prague, Reconnaissance International,
2008.
University of Southampton, Electronics and Computer Science
Page 4 of 7
Research Scientist
January 2007 - September 2007 (9 months)
Largest in UK, 5* in Research Assessment Exercises, 'Best 5*' in Higher
Education Funding Council.
Application domains:
- Human Motion, Biometrics.
- Course delivery and project formulation.
Publications:
C.-Y. Yam and M. S. Nixon, Model-based Gait Recognition, Chapter in
Encyclopedia of Biometrics, Springer 2009
Intel
Senior Technical Marketing Engineer
August 2004 - November 2006 (2 years 4 months)
The world's largest and leader for semiconductors and microprocessors.
- Digital Security Surveillance
- Business Development and Partnership
- Market Awareness for Emerging Market
- Authored technical articles
- Developed demonstration kit.
Invention Disclosure:
- IP.COM, “Method for human-to-computer interaction by LIDAR-based gesture
recognition and interpretation.” IPCOM000143795D, 2006.
A*STAR - Agency for Science, Technology and Research
Research Fellow
April 2003 - July 2004 (1 year 4 months)
Signal processing, statistics.
Application domains:
- Micro-array Analysis, Bioinformatics.
- Requirement Analysis and Software Design.
Publication:
Page 5 of 7
S-W Chua, P. Vijayakumar, P. M. Nissom, C.-Y. Yam, V. V. T. Wong and
H. Yang. A novel normalization method for effective removal of systematic
variation in microarray data. Nucleic Acids Research, Vol.34, No. 5, 2006.
University of Southampton - Electronics and Computer Science
Research Consultant
January 2002 - December 2002 (1 year)
Computer vision, time-series analytic, pattern recognition, laboratory design,
large data collection and processing.
Application domains:
- Invented first model-based walking and running gait biometrics system for
person, gender and age-group identification.
- Human gait as Biometrics Lab (first and largest)
- US Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA): Gait as
Biometric– Automatic Gait Recognition for Human ID at a Distance.
- Designed and set up first of its kind Biometrics Gait Laboratory in the world.
- Model-based motion modelling and spatial-temporal feature extraction.
- Statistical-based and model-based moving feature extraction.
- Empirical and analytical modelling.
- Authored and presented technical papers.
- Contributed to Image Processing and Biometrics books.
Tools: Matlab, C, Java, Java Advanced Imaging (JAI).
Publications:
C.-Y. Yam, M. S. Nixon and J. N. Carter, Extended Model-based Automatic
Gait Recognition of Walking and Running, 3rd Proc. Audio- and Video-Based
Biometric Person Authentication, pp 284-294, 2001.
C.-Y. Yam, M. S. Nixon and J. N. Carter, Performance Analysis on New
Biometric Gait Motion Model, 5th IEEE Southwest Symposium on Image
Analysis and Interpretation, pp 31-34, 2002.
C.-Y. Yam, M. S. Nixon and J. N. Carter, On the Relationship of Human
Walking and Running: Automatic Person Identification by Gait, 16th
International Conference on Pattern Recognition, 2002.
Page 6 of 7
C.-Y. Yam, M. S. Nixon and J. N. Carter, Automated Markerless Analysis
of Human Walking and Running by Computer Vision, IV World Congress
Biomechanics, 2002.
C.-Y. Yam and M. S. Nixon, Automated Non-Invasive Human Locomotion
Extraction Invariant to Camera Sagittal View, Proc. 11th International
Conference on Biomedical Engineering, 2002.
C.-Y. Yam, M. S. Nixon and J. N. Carter, Automated Person Recognition by
Walking and Running via Model-based Approach. Pattern Recognition, 37(5),
2004.
Education
University of Southampton
Ph.D., Computer Vision, Image Processing, Human Motion Modelling,
Biometrics · (1999 - 2002)
University of Southampton
B. Eng., Computer Engineering · (1997 - 1999)
Page 7 of 7
