Michael McKintyre Comedy Show

The Who who got their tickets. Online, but with applause online people.
Yes, online.
In booking.
It's it's easy, isn't it? It's odd I find online. Looking quite quite difficult. There are aspects of it, just don't understand what does that freeze that you have to repeat. This is like. A challenge you have to go through before. You even book the tickets, some kind of. Literacy test. Like a collection of. Letters that all. To the wiggly and hiding behind each other with. 24 OK, you have to copy it, which is. The phone number. 24 You press then he. Goes no. What we're doing this show it. Just doesn't get stuck. On that for about half an hour. Let me get into the register registering online just winds me up. I don't want to join all these companies. I just want to. I just want to get the product. I don't want. Like when I look at a booking. Form and it's all empty and everything. If your name in but you're. Dressing sometimes when you click country of. Your address every country in the. World comes up because an unbelievable number of countries. We actually know where we live. You have to look all of them. England. You hook for England. It's nearest to no. I think in England. Great Britain, no Great Britain, OK.
Right.
Only the only country that you're on the list is the country we're in. It's a local cinema and Angola is the first one on the list. Who's in Angola going today? I would like to go to.
The cinema in north London. I'm so sick of my local Multiplex.
This is like a 230 showing the. Same day, how would anyone? Get there from Angola.
We were chatting, a fact that it and we will travel at the time and the new cinematic sounds exotic. I will see The Avengers there and then we will fly back immediately. Only deciphered is free.
To beat or a 13.
Why am I doing this challenge? Did you put your e-mail address in?
And just confirm your e-mail address. This one why do you have to confirm my own e-mail address? I can confirm it. The person, it's my. E-mail address. Why are you testing me on my own e-mail address with asking to confirm anything else? It's right I. Was an idiot. I know where your address it's. Always been my e-mail address because they're desperate. They're desperate to get your e-mail address. We can put one there naming list and harass. It so they can harass. You with little updates and sales promotions for the rest of your life and you don't want to be part of that. And they know that you don't want to be part of that. So they make it very difficult for you to know what else to tick or not tick the box, which basically tell them to leave you alone. It'll say something like if you do not want to. Not not not. Receive endorsement from us, but the rest of your living life and the lives of your children. Forget to remember to uncheck cheque for longer contact non cheque, cheque, cheque, non cheque, cheque box.
I have no idea.
Just 5050. It's taking me an hour and a half. To guess. T385050. And conditions you just agreed to, I mean. Who's got time? Who's got? Time seriously to do a week's legal reading. I'm just trying to buy a toaster from Argos. I don't think we need to get the lawyers involved in this early stage until everything's fine. I'm playing an album from iTunes. So legally, there's going to be no difficulties. What did almost you just picking the next page anyway, unless you just go, you pull the plug, you have to take it anyway. We don't even know where Greens I. Think a small part for us is panicking slightly. But instead of 30 years, people from iTunes are. Going to just show up. At our houses we own this House. Get out. You signed this several years ago when you bought a single. Password I mean.
Welcome.
Just constantly remember the good old days, I. Look back nostalgically. When I had one part worked for everything, we all had our first password. Do you remember your first password? But then? It's time to get. Complicated. We have to add a number and. That started to. Come into play. Can we have a number please in your password? A number? I don't have a number in my password. Well, you'll need. A number in your password, so we all. Came up with the same solution to this little dilemma. You'll have the number one at the end. Of my normal password. Now they can be quite rude company you. Suggest the password it. Goes weak buck off. Those are my children's next. Calling week. Who are you to judge me, Amazon. Then you forget your password. And let's be honest, I forget passwords all the time. Every time I log back on to something you you try. To rejoin and it's like you already joined seven years ago. Do you remember your username and that e-mail is? Already on our. System don't remember doing that how much years ago. It's not that important to me. Security questions I don't even know the answers to. My own security questions. They born they put the hospital, they put the the town and they put the I don't know where I was, how many dogs I've got lots of dogs. Which dogs do? They put in. I don't. Know Mum, can you show me back with your major name? Booking fees, that's a piece of business booking fees you have to agree to the booking thing, just spent an hour and a half doing my own booking. Flow with children's names and then you take money for no reason. Because it's already an hour in. Of course, whatever money you need this money to the credit card details in the and you click next with confidence. You don't happen to see me the most pathetic. Sometimes we're doing it. Who selected that 6? Even though this was possible, you see the whole information 19 year old. I think in the future we will. Because if you seem to be over there. I did this booking this the 1st. Time the other day, so much confidence where I was sitting preference. Disappointing. So confident. But if you wanna wade in, you want to wade in to strangers G on top of the seat. Ohh 3. Some kind of killed. But during the document I realised I had the wrong date. Right. Tonight. Sort this out. I'll. Be back in 24 hours. It's like your journey home with popcorn. You're an idiot, restricted, never understood. Restricted to go to theatre or something. Like to see the whole stage reselling tickets with a restricted view. To be surprised, some people actually prefer it. Saying yeah, because it's cheaper. What kind of people are these?
